23.1.3.4
Personal Characteristics
(a) Clues to traits of character may be found in the dossier of an appointee when the letters of recommendations are included:
(b)
For promotions, confidential reports from colleagues and others acquainted with the candidate will constitute the primary source of information regarding personal characteristics. Such reports must obviously be treated with great circumspection.
23.1.4 Specific Qualifications for Appointment and Promotion
a_
To be considered for appointment on Tenure Track the candidate is required to resign or retire from any position held previously in any public private Institution or Organization, except in the case that the candidate is incumbent of the same university: b. The following statements should be looked upon as firm but not absolute guidelines governing normal promotion. Special procedures are sometimes required in unusual circumstances; where too strict adherence to the rule could well be disadvantageous to the University. Also, qualifications differ in the various fields. Customary degrees or their equivalents should be required, recognizing that these requirements differ according to the standards in the various fields. C Possession of a Doctoratelrelevant terminal qualification is required by a candidate to be appointed to the post of Assistant Professor, or above. d_ The relevant terminal qualification in the case of a faculty member in the Clinical Medical Science discipline would be MSIMDIMDSIMPhil FCPS(Pakistan) Membership of Royal Colleges (UK) Diplomat of American Board and equivalent (as determined by HEC): In the case of Law the relevant terminal qualification would be Llm (law) or JD. In the case of Arts and Design (Studio Practice) the relevant terminal qualification would be Master's (Foreign) or MPhil or equivalent degree in the relevant field as determined by the HEC. (See Annexure-23B for other subjects where terminal degree is Master (foreign) or MPhil Pakistan)
e
A faculty member   appointed under the  Tenure Track   scheme may not   take up any other paid assignment with any other organization, without the approval of the Vice Chancellor of the respective Institution. (III) , Officer Cecretariat; Abn : 218eshawar Pag e 0 f 2 6 4 Govern ` amiianki