the   qualifications for the various ranks in terms of four major areas of describes consideration, together with indications of the relative importance of these areas and possible sources of information for evaluations.
23.1.1 General Introduction
(a) Ultimate decisions in matters of appointment and promotion in rank are made on the authority of the Senate. Initial recommendations, however; are made at the departmental level (or college level where colleges are not  divided into  departments) , although a recommendation may be submitted by any member of the faculty: These recommendations are then reviewed by the administrative officers most directly involved and are forwarded with their recommendations to the Vice Chancellor of the University who transmits them to the Senate Recommendations at the departmental level will be given most  serious consideration in this procedure. (b) Recommendations for appointment also involve decisions regarding temporary or probationary status. The precise terms and conditions of every new appointment to the faculty shall be stated in writing and given to the faculty member before the appointment is made_ In cases of reduction of the length of the probationary period, the matter should be clearly stated in writing and agreed to at the time of appointment: In the case of promotions of faculty members not already having tenure, tenure expectations may need to be considered, although the tenure decision is a separate matter. A copy of this statement of policy shall also he given to the faculty member before his appointment: (c) The University may make the following types of appointments of new faculty members: 1. Temporary Appointments. ii_ Tenure Track Appointments (a) First term Appointments_ (b) Second term (Probationary) Appointments. (c) Tenured Appointments (d) faculty member on Tenure Track may be appointed to any academic administrative post in the university such as Director Research, Chairman, Dean, etc: (see Annexure-23A for clarification)
(e) Once a University/Degree Awarding  Institution has adopted the Tenure Track System of appointment no further appointment of PhD degree holders may be made as Assistant Professors under the old (BPS) system: Such faculty members must be recruited under the Tenure Track scheme. (III) , Officer 'Qn Secretariat. Peshawar Seet; Jkhwa, 214 |Pa 9 e 0 f 2 6 4 Govenror O;ikuis