to men and women of  ability: Freedom and economic security, hence   tenure, are indispensable to the success of an institution in fulfilling its obligations to its students and to society
23.2.1 The Tenure Track Process
(a) The tenure track process normally involves an initial term contract appointment of a faculty member for a period of three years. For a faculty member appointed at a junior rank (not higher   than Assistant   Professor) it will be  followed by a second term contract appointment for an additional period of three years. A tenure decision must be made for such a faculty member in the third year of the second term contract appointment: Faculty members initially appointed at a junior rank will thus normally serve six years, before a final tenure decision is made. For a faculty member appointed at a senior rank (Associate and Full Professor) the probationary period shall normally be four years for associate and professors. The services of a faculty member having tenure shall be terminated only for adequate cause_ except at the normal retirement age or under extraordinary circumstances discussed in these statutes. (b) Each candidate who wishes to be considered for the Tenure Track Scheme should prepare a comprehensive application dossier that includes letters of reference from his/her Ph.D. supervisor as well as others from eminent researchers in his/her area of specialization, and all publications in Internationally Abstracted Journals, recognized for the purpose of appointment on Tenure Track by the Higher Education Commission. (c) The dossier of each candidate from all applicants other than Assistant Professors should be sent to an independent Technical Review Panel (TRP) to be constituted by the University and composed of eminent international academics and researchers in the relevant area, drawn only from technologically advanced countries. A copy of the dossier, along with names of the Technical Review Panel  members should also be sent to the HEC. The following criteria should be followed while selecting members of the TRP: 1S Should not have served as SupervisorICo-Supervisor of the candidate under review: ii. Should not have been a student of the candidate. iii. Should not have been a co-author of the candidate on any publication: iv Must have the rank of an Associate Professor or above in a recognized university or equivalent position in a recognized research organization. HelShe also must not have a lower rank than the applicant:
(TII) , Officer Secretzriat eshawar Section Pakitakhwa r Co" Khyb 8 222 | Pa g & 0 f 2 6 4