23.2.4.2 Benefits of Existing Faculty Member on Tenure Track
(a) The salary scales are all inclusive and no other allowance (PhD. allowance, medical allowance, orderly allowance etc ) , or benefit will be admissible to the concerned faculty members, except gratuity equal to one month's pay for each completed year of service. For this purpose the pay would mean the last pay drawn after each completed year of service. However; medical facility will be provided by the University as per BPS scales. If the person is in occupancy of a university residence, the house rent deductions will be at ceiling for requisition of such houses in each BPS grade. In case of provincial University the requisition rates of equivalent category of house shall apply. (See Annexure-23D for clarification) 23.2.4.3 Rejection of Grant of Tenure to Existing Faculty Members
(a) In case tenure is not granted after the final review; the faculty member would revert to hislher BPS posting (being held by the individual prior to TTS appointment )
23.2.5 Decision Dates and Dates of Notice:
(a) Written notice that a faculty member in probationary status is or is not to be continued in service will be given to the faculty member not later than June 30 of the final year of the predetermined probationary period. If the decision is positive, the faculty member shall have tenure effective July of the fiscal year following the probationary period. If the decision is negative, the faculty member will be offered a terminal one-year appointment in the fiscal year immediately following the probationary period. If, for any reason , the decision date is not met in the case of a negative decision; the faculty member shall be offered an additional terminal one-year appointment beyond the one provided for above. (b) Written notice that a faculty member on a first three-year term appointment is not to be continued in service will be given to the faculty member a minimum of three months prior to the last day of service of the faculty member. C At any point during the first term appointment or during the probationary period, a department   chairperson may recommend that a term appointee or probationary faculty member not be continued in service. If, after consulting with at least the tenured members of the department (and usually also after obtaining data fror experts outside the university) , the chairperson decides to recommend to the dean that a faculty member in probationary or term status not be continued in service, the chairperson shall notify the faculty member in writing: If requested by the faculty member; the chairperson shall indicate in writing the reason for the decision. The faculty member shall have ten working   days in which to   request a (Q) Officer Yesne a 230, a g e 0 f 2 6 4 'ecticn Gecreiate