23.1.4.1
The Junior Ranks
23.1.4.1.1
Lecturer (On Contract)
This rank is most appropriate for persons beginning their teaching careers. It should be used by any department or Faculty which finds it convenient and appropriate to include lectureship within its faculty rankings. It can also be used for persons needed to fill temporary posts under emergency conditions. As with any appointment; the status should be made clear and put in writing at the time of employment: (a) Aperson who is primarily a graduate student may not be given a faculty appointment: Such a person may be appointed as a teaching assistant or teaching associate , in accordance with University policies. (b) Lecturers are appointed with the understanding that they will not be promoted to professorial rank unless they obtain a Ph.D. degree or relevant terminal qualification
23.1.44.1.2
Assistant Professor
(a) To be appointed as an Assistant Professor on Tenure Track, the candidate is required to have a Ph D/Relevant terminal qualification from a recognized institution and excellent written communication skills as well as excellent presentation skills. An Assistant Professor should be demonstrably competent in the subject matter area 0f courses taught and should have indicated a serious commitment to teaching, but it need not be expected that an extensive reputation in the field has been acquired: As the Assistant Professor continues in this rank an effort t0 increase knowledge and improve teaching ability should he demonstrated and professional  presentation should be made   through papers to professional organizations, through publications, or through other creative work. (b) As a general rule, the length of service in the rank of Assistant Professor before being considered for   promotion to the rank of Associate Professor is six years. Recommendations for promotion after first term review should be carefully weighed and justified by the administrative officer making such recommendation.
(c)
23.1.4.2 The Senior Ranks
Appointment or promotion to either senior rank should represent an implicit prediction on the part of the department, college, and University that the individual will continue to make sound contributions to teaching and learning: It should be made only after  careful investigation of the candidate's promise in scholarship, in teaching, and in leadership and learning: By this statement is meant that serious attention must be given to the caliber of the candidate's intellectual and moral stature, for this will probably be the key factor in determining the extent to which past performance in teaching and in creative work may be expected to carry on through continuing contributions: Deans and departmental chairpersons normally will look to the senior ranks for advice and cornsel regarding policy matters, including appointment and promotion. Also, services rendered to communities and