degree or minimum of 7-years of post-PhD experience with at least 12 years of experience prior to the PhD. The experience to be counted is to be of teaching/research in a recognized University or a post-graduate Institution or professional experience in the relevant field in a National or International Organization. In addition 15 research publications (with at least 5 publications in the past 5 years) in internationally abstracted Journals, recognized for the purpose of appointment on Tenure Track by the Higher Education Commission, are required:
(c) As a general rule, the length of service in the rank of Associate Professor before being  considered for promotion to full professor is four years. Recommendations for promotion in less time should be carefully weighed and justified by the administrative officer making the recommendation.
23.1.5 Temporary Appointments (a) Temporary one-year appointments may be made for faculty members appointed as visiting professors, to fill positions funded by other than Government-appropriated funds, to replace faculty members on leave, or whenever an appointment has to be made so late that normal search procedures cannot be followed. With the exception of appointments made without a normal search procedure, faculty members on such appointments may be reappointed for a second or third year if mutually agreeable to the faculty member and the department and Faculty involved, or they may be reappointed under a term appointment: Full-time, temporary appointments shall not normally lead to permanent tenure. They shall not exceed a total of three years except in the case of an explicit exception granted by the University Senate (b) Temporary appointments may also be made for the positions of Research Associates working towards their Ph.D. degree, as well as for Post Doctoral Fellows working with a research group for a limited   period. Such   positions may be funded by other than Government-appropriated funds. 23.2 TENURE TRACK APPOINTMENTS Institutions of higher education are conducted for the common good and not to further the interest of either the individual teacher' or the institution as a whole_ The common good depends upon the free search for truth and its free exposition: Academic freedom is essential to these purposes and applies to both teaching and research. Freedom in research is fundamental to the advancement of truth. Academic freedom in its teaching  aspect is fundamental for the protection of the rights of the teacher in teaching and of the student to freedom in learning: It carries with it duties correlative with rights. Tenure is a means to certain ends; specifically: (1) freedom_ofsteaching and of extramural C activities, and (2) a sufficient degree of economic security to make-the profession attractive