In no case however, should a person's productive effort be measured by mere quantity.
23.1.2.3
Service
This term refers  specifically to service to the University community, as in committee assignments, and to public service. It also has reference to service to one's profession, usually identified by time and effort  given to professional  organizations,  whether of Provincial, regional, national, or international character. Not least of the services rendered are those that concern the local community in which the University is located, and the country at large. An outstanding service record should be a positive factor in making an evaluation, but the lack of such a record should not be regarded as sufficient cause for denying an appointment or promotion.
23.1,.2.4
Personal Characteristics
This category may be considered to include all traits which contribute to an individual's effectiveness as a teacher, as a leader in a professional area, and as a human being: Of primary concern here are intellectual  breadth, emotional  stability or maturity, and a sufficient vitality and forcefulness to constitute effectiveness There must also be a sufficient degree of  compassion and willingness to cooperate, so that an individual can work harmoniously with others while maintaining independence of thought and action. This category is so broad that flexibility is imperative in its appraisal
23.1.3 Sources of Information
It is not easy to come to clear and definite decisions about the criteria on which a candidate is judged, even when the information is at hand: The suggestions that follow have been found useful and appropriate in identifying sources of information. 23.1.3.1 Teaching
a
Consult colleagues in the candidate's field and those in allied fields. Seek out student opinion: In the absence of a reliable system for courselteaching evaluation, this method needs to be used with great care Gather reports on colloquia, seminars , etc  given in the department or elsewhere with a view to assess the quality of presentation with respect to subject content, organization and communication: d. Consult course files e Gather reports on guidance and leadership in student activities. Gather reports on initiation and participation in curriculum development e.g: new courses, new programs, etc. (IID) , Teaching load Officer = Secretariat, Peshawar Section Goverroi Pakhtuakhwa, 216 Pa g e 0 f 2 6 4 1ber
b.
C
g_